# Platform-to-track-police-officers-using-NFC
Developed an NFC- and GPS-enabled platform to track police officers on Bandobast duty in real-time,  ensuring they remain within designated boundaries.

We have developed a platform that tracks the police officers on Bandobast duty using the NFC (Near Field Communication) and the GPS location tracking service. It will help the Head Police Department to easily monitor the police officers who have been deployed on Bandobast Duty by tracking their current location in real-time.

We have designed a platform that consists of an NFC-enabled Mobile application and a Website.  The website is used by the Head Police Department to allocate the police officers to their respective sectors on Bandobast duties and to track the police officers using GPS-location service in real-time. (GPS is used since the NFC has a minimum range.) The Mobile Application is used by the police officers who have been allocated to Bandobast duty.

Every bandobast sector will have a NFC tag. In that NFC tag, police officers who have been assigned to bandobast duty have to scan their NFC-enabled phones to verify their presence. To avoid proxy, fingerprint and face recognition is included. Then their location will be turned ON on their mobile and starts tracking their current location in real-time. These tracked locations are updated on the website for every 5 sec which will be monitored by the Head Police Department. We have set up a constraint where police officers must remain within a designated boundary set by the Head Police Department. If any police officers go out of the boundary designated by the Head, then the mobile application will show a warning message to that police officer. If they persist to stay out of the boundary, then an alert message will be sent to the Head Police Department. To confirm the presence of the police officers, the officers have to scan the  NFC tag in their respective sector and complete the fingerprint and face recognition process for every 1 hour. 

For the mobile application development, we have used Kotlin and Java, as well as an NFC adapter embedded within the mobile application to scan NFC tags. Map API is embedded with website which is used to track the police officers’ location. Map API is also used in our mobile app to view their allocated bandobast area for their duty.
